           perfSONAR Skeleton MP Service Installation Instructions

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prerequisites:
--------------

The Skeleton MP is packaged as an RPM - an installation format geared towards
use on Red Hat Linux based systems.  Examples include Fedora, Red Hat Enterprise
Linux, CentOS, White Box, Scientific Linux, and possibly others.  

These Linux distributions normally rely on "Package Management" tools to install
and maintain software.  Examples of these tools include up2date, YUM, and
APT-RPM.  Internet2 has created a repository to house the perfSONAR-PS software,
related performance tools, and hard to find prerequisites.  We encourage
adopters of these performance tools to install a simple RPM package that gives
the necessary configuration information for the YUM and APT-RPM tools.  The RPM
can be found here:

  wget -c http://software.internet2.edu/Internet2-repo-0.2-1.noarch.rpm
  
To install this RPM first import the signing key:

  (sudo) rpm --import http://software.internet2.edu/rpms/RPM-GPG-KEY-Internet2

Then install the RPM:

  (sudo) rpm -ivh Internet2-repo-0.2-1.noarch.rpm

It is also recommended that an additional repository be installed for hard to 
find prerequisite software that may not be available in traditional repositories
used by the Linux distributions.  One example:

 * http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL
 
Each site provides configuration instructions and packages similar to the
Internet2 repository.

If using a package management system is not an option, or if your system is not
RedHat based (e.g. Debian, Gentoo, etc.) it is still possible to install this
software and related requirements by hand.  Please see the "Installation (Tar
Package)" and "Installation (SVN)" sections for more details.  This tool uses
the following Perl libraries, libraries, and external tools to function:

  * Perl Libraries
    - Config::General
    - Cwd
    - Data::Dumper
    - Data::UUID
    - Date::Manip
    - Digest::MD5
    - Error
    - Exporter
    - File::Temp
    - Getopt::Long
    - HTTP::Daemon
    - IO::File
    - LWP::Simple
    - LWP::UserAgent
    - Log::Log4perl
    - Log::Dispatch
    - Log::Dispatch::FileRotate
    - Log::Dispatch::File
    - Log::Dispatch::Syslog
    - Log::Dispatch::Screen
    - Module::Load
    - Net::Ping
    - Params::Validate
    - Sys::Hostname
    - Term::ReadKey
    - Time::HiRes
    - XML::LibXML
    - base
  * Libraries
    - LibXML2



Installation (Bare RPM):
------------------------

To install without package manager help:

  (sudo) rpm -ivh perl-perfSONAR_PS-SkeletonMP-3.2-1.pSPS.noarch.rpm
  
Note that this RPM may need other packages to install correctly: if these
packages are not found on your system, you will need to manually download and
install them before proceeding.  An alternate method is to still use a package
manager in a "local" way (YUM only):

  (sudo) yum localinstall perl-perfSONAR_PS-SkeletonMP-3.2-1.pSPS.noarch.rpm
  
This will search the available repositories for any necessary packages.



Installation (Tar Package):
---------------------------

All RPM packages are also available in "source" packages that may be installed
and used in the typical Unix/Linux fashion.  There are helper scripts included
that may be used to download the necessary prerequisite software packages:

  tar -zxfv perfSONAR_PS-SkeletonMP-3.2.1.tar.gz
  cd perfSONAR_PS-SkeletonMP-3.2.1
  (sudo) make install
    *Edit all configuration files - See README*
  cd scripts
  ./install_dependencies.sh
  ./prepare_environment.sh

The last three steps need to be run as root or via sudo. The latter two steps
will configure the machine's users and startup scripts as well as contact CPAN
for any necessary perl libraries.

In addition to perl requirements, there are other software requirements that
should be installed.  These are not controlled via the dependency scripts due to
differences in package management.  The tools are listed below:

  * LibXML2
    - Package management names:
      * Debian/Ubuntu: libxml2, libxml2-dev, libxml2-utils
      * RedHat Systems: libxml2, libxml2-devel

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tue Dec 14 10:59:52 EST 2010
